# Vilaetal2019

This repository contain the datafiles and scripts for Vilaetal2019

Methods used to obtain this data are outlined in the the paper.

All scripts and data are stored in this folder.

Script summary: 

Invasion Simulations were conducted using C++/Invasion_Additive.cpp. The script is designed to be run a cluster and take an integer number between 1-450 as an argument. Different sets of simulations will be conducted depending on which integer number is provided. Simulations were run with a wall time of 72 hr.

Scripts used to simulate the source community with alternative distributions of mutational effect are found in Source_Community_Simulations/C++. 

Assuming you have extracted Summary_Data.csv from the zip folder:

Figures 2-6 can be generated by running  R/Paper_Figures.R r
Figures S1-S5 can be  generated by running R/Paper_Supplementary_Figures.R
Figures S6-S7 Can be generated by running Source_Community_Simulations/R/Paper_Supplementary_Figures2.R


Data summary: 

The raw results outputed from this scripts are extremely large (~30gb). Data was converted into a tractable data.table using R/Data_Processing.R.  The primary data.table is stored in a compressed zip folder R/Summary_Data.csv.tar.gz which when extracted will give a 2.5Gb csv file called Summary_Data.csv which gives the snapshot data for each invasion run which is all that we need for most of the analysis. Summary_Data.csv is sufficient to plot figures 3-5 and S1-S5. Timeseries data needed for Figure 2 and figure 6D are provided as csv files in the R/Timeseries folder. Experimental data used in Figure 6A and 6C is contained in R/Acosta.csv and R/Jousset.csv.

The results for simulations of the source community (i.e figures S6 and S7). are stored as csv files in Source_Community_Simulations/R folder. The files in this folder contain results for simulations with paramaters J = 10000, u = 0.0001, s = 0.01 except for DFE_Simulations.csv which is carried out using a range of paramaters for multiple different distributions of fitness effects..


